As a graduate student in Computer Science at George Washington University with a bachelor’s degree in engineering I am highly motivated to continue conducting research in Computer Science and Engineering as a PhD student at Penn State University. Since my freshman year, I demonstrated excellence in programming and algorithm design, which made me an active member of the Competitive Programming club as well as a successful competitor at the ACM Programming competition and the Republican Olympiad in Informatics.During my undergraduate years, I excelled in many research projects and laboratory works related to engineering, programming, and software design. Despite some of them being challenging, I found the experience rewarding in terms of the skillset obtained. First, I gained leadership, collaboration, and time management skills as some of the projects required working in a team of three throughout tight deadlines, which also contributed positively to my conflict-solving and critical thinking skills.  Secondly, I honed my programming skills and gained hands-on experience in C/C++, C#, and MATLAB. Lastly, I got full exposure to a laboratory work environment, which further fuelled my interest in research, engineering, and data analysis.The challenging and rewarding undergraduate years were a good incentive for me to pursue a dual master’s degree in computer science and data analytics at George Washington and ADA Universities. Throughout the last two university years, I gained further exposure to research and programming. I successfully completed projects related to machine learning, big data, and computer architecture. These projects helped me to learn and explore AI and Machine Learning fields and gain practical skills such as building neural networks from scratch only using NumPy, tuning model parameters, and implementing convolutional neural networks. Currently, I am eager to explore new areas of computer science and engineering and contribute to cutting-edge research conducted at Penn State University. Regarding my future goals, I am willing to pursue a research career path as I believe I will be a successful researcher thanks to my analytical, programming, and engineering skills and relevant educational and professional background. Pursuing a PhD degree at Penn State University is my short-term goal which will ultimately contribute to the advancement of my knowledge in computer science and engineering. I am excited to embark on this journey and I believe the wide variety of skill sets and professional analytical experience make me an ideal candidate for this PhD program. 